=head1 NAME

padframe - generates a pad cell placement script

=head1 SYNOPSIS

hydra.pl padframe B<-id_csv> I<FILE>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This script reads a list of pads from a csv spreadsheet and generates a script that will create pad instances (if they are physical) and place them. The spreadsheet is the same file used in the function B<bump_map>. The first row is assumed to be a header and skipped. It must include these columns, in order:

 ID          - A pad ID with no whitespace starting with "T", "B", "L", or "R".
 Signal      - The signal name connected to the corresponding bump for this pad. Not used in this script.
 Instance    - The instance name of the pad.
 Cell        - The cell type of the pad.
 Orientation - The desired orientation of the pad.
 Width       - The width of the pad in microns.
 X           - The desired lower left X coordinate of the pad.
 Y           - The desired lower left Y coordinate of the pad.
 Phys?       - Whether the pad is physical or logical. "Y" for physical, "N" for logical. If the pad is physical, then the name in the "Instance" column is considered a base name upon which the cell type and a unique number will be appended to form an instance name, and a command will be added to create the instance. If the pad is logical, then name in the "Instance" column will be used as-is and should refer to an already created instance.

Any row with an empty ID column will be skipped.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-id_csv>

A csv file containing a mapping of ID names to pad names as well as coordinate locations for each pad.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

=head1 SEE ALSO

bump_map
