=head1 NAME

Promote Sdc - modify a module's sdc for a wrapper that instantiates that module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

hydra.pl promote_sdc B<-sdc> I<FILE> [B<-netlist> I<FILE>] [B<-target_inst> I<NAME>] [B<-module> I<NAME>] [B<-input_delay> I<VALUE>] [B<-output_delay> I<VALUE>] [B<-remove_clocks> I<NAME>...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Starts modifications for the sdc of a target module that has been instantiated inside a wrapper module. The modified sdc will be suitable for use when working on the scope of the wrapper module.

There a few things that require manual modification after running this script.

All create_clock statements are converted to create_generated_clock statements. For each of these, you must manually specify the source clock. Search the promoted sdc for "<required>" to easily reach these statements.

New port input/output delays are either set to zero or blanket-set to the values given by options B<-input_delay> and B<-output_delay> and may need to be examined.

WARNING: A limitation of the current sdc parser is that all object references must use a "get" command (e.g. get_pins, get_clocks). Objects that do not use a "get" command will not be recognized and will remain untouched.

=over

=item Processing on Specific SDC Commands

The following is a list of commands that are completely stripped out:
 set_driving_cell
 set_load
 set_input_delay
 set_output_delay
 set_port_fanout_number
 group_path

If the B<-remove_clocks> option is used, then the following commands are complete stripped out:
 set_clock_* (except: set_clock_groups, set_clock_gating_check)
 set_clock_groups will be removed if all clocks were removed

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-netlist>

A netlist containing the module wrapper. Optional, but either this or B<-target_inst> must be defined. If this option is defined, then the target module will be promoted only one hierarchy level up.

=item B<-target_inst>

The hierarchical path to the instance that the target module will be promoted to. The target module will be a sub-instance of the given instance. Optional, but either this or B<-netlist> must be defined.

=item B<-sdc>

The sdc file for the target module.

=item B<-module>

The name of the target module. Optional. If not given, then the script will try the sdc file name.

=item B<-input_delay>

Specify an input delay to apply to all input ports of the wrapper module. Optional. If not given, all ports will get an input delay of 0.

=item B<-output_delay>

Specify an output delay to apply to all output ports of the wrapper module. Optional. If not given, all ports will get an output delay of 0.

=item B<-remove_clocks>

Specify a list of clocks to remove. All references to each clock will either be removed, or the offending statement will be commented out if the clock removal makes the statement invalid.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

=head1 SEE ALSO
